Hello.
So I'm Mark Kawano,
Apple's User Experience Evangelist,
and today I'm going to be talking
about iOS User Interface Design.
So I'll be going through some tips for
UI design on the iPad and the iPhone.
Now, as you all know,
design is something that we
care a lot about at Apple.
And when we design products,
our customers have come to
experience that's intuitive,
that's engaging.
That's beautiful and
sometimes even a bit magical.
And we spend a lot of time and energy
making sure that all of our apps
that are built into the iPhone and
the iPad and that are available on
the App Store have these attributes.
And I've spent several years as a
UI designer at Apple designing products,
and so I know firsthand just
how much care and consideration
goes into every design decision.
And I think it really shows,
as we've kind of seen in
some of these examples.
We've also spent a lot of time
and energy on our platform
building a really robust SDK.
And I hope you've really enjoyed the week
so far and have been able to pick up some
great tips and learn about all the latest
and greatest technologies in iOS 6.
But I want to really just remind
you for a minute as you're kind of
taking in all this new information,
you're meeting a lot of new people,
learning about great new APIs,
new features, new frameworks,
that at the end of the day, what
What users and customers really
care about isn't the technology that
you're building your product on.
What they're really interested in is what
your app enables them to do and how it
makes them feel when they're using it.
And that's what you really want to
focus on when you're designing your
app for the iPhone or the iPad.
And on Monday afternoon,
we've highlighted some fantastic
apps that are on the App Store at
the Apple Design Awards,
and I hope many of you were
able to attend this event.
And it really shows some of the amazing
user experiences that are only capable or
only possible on the iPhone and the iPad.
So we highlighted some great apps,
such as Bobo Explores Lights,
or Paper by 53, National Parks by the
National Geographic Society,
Jetpack Joyride, DM1, the Drum Machine,
and Where's My Water?
Now,
these apps set the bar for those user
experiences that are just unbelievable.
But really, there are so many apps on
the App Store that have great
user experiences as well.
They have great design, great graphics,
really innovative features.
And as developers,
I hope you're constantly going to
the App Store and downloading apps,
not just in your categories,
but all over and seeing
what we're featuring,
seeing what other developers are really
doing that are really raising the bar
for these great software experiences.
But as you know,
there's also a lot of apps on the
App Store that could use some help.
You know,
maybe the graphics aren't that great, or,
you know, the features aren't as
innovative as they need to be.
Or maybe the UI has just been
squished down from a website
or a desktop experience.
Well,
today what I'd like to do is talk about
some of these common design pitfalls
that you see a lot in these iOS apps.
So I've put together this list,
and this really comes from my
experience working with thousands of
developers from all over the world.
And kind of seeing these
pitfalls in their apps,
in their user experiences,
kind of taking away from their idea,
from their creation.
And so the list that I've put together
is the order that I'm going to go
through isn't necessarily an order
of importance or how much I see them,
but really the order that I kind
of approach the app when I'm
doing one of the UI reviews,
such as, you know,
we've got the UI design
lab on the third floor.
Please go and check that out.
And so when I go through these apps
with the developers one-on-one,
it starts with the first impression,
then kind of playing around with the
different features and learning a little
bit more about what they're trying to do,
what users want to do.
And so that's kind of the order that
I'm going to go through these pitfalls.
Okay, so let's get started.
And the first pitfall I want
to talk about is bad app icons.
You guys are all probably seen
lots of apps with bad app icons.
And you know that an app icon is really
the first impression that users are
going to have of your whole product,
your whole experience.
It's the first thing
they're going to see.
They're going to judge
your app right away.
And if you don't have a great app icon,
they're just not going to assume.
They're going to assume that you also
have great features or a great UI.
So here we're looking at the App Store,
and this is if you do
a search for recipes.
And I bet many of you right away,
right just looking at the screen,
are starting to make judgments.
You're starting to say, well,
that app looks kind of interesting.
These other ones, you know,
I don't know if I'm
going to check that out.
You know,
the App Store is so competitive now.
And this is where it all begins.
This is where the experience starts.
This is before anybody's
read any of the reviews,
seen the ratings, seen the screenshots,
heard about any of the features.
This is just the app icon.
So I think it kind of goes
without saying that an app,
great app icon can play a huge
part in the success of your app.
And so, of course, app icons,
just like all graphics in your app,
need to be beautiful.
It kind of goes without saying.
But an app icon has some
extra responsibility.
An app icon also needs to
be instantly recognizable.
And that's really important because
a user is going to interact with your
app icon not just on their home screen.
They're going to first see it on the
iTunes store at various different sizes,
depending on what device they're using.
They're also going to see it in places
like Spotlight or inside of a folder or
in settings or a notification center.
And you need to make sure that when
you're designing an app icon that it
works well at all these different sizes.
And so to help you do that,
to make sure that your app icons are both
beautiful and instantly recognizable,
I'm going to go through
some tips right now.
So the first tip is just to make sure
that you're focusing on a unique shape.
If your app icon just has too many
shapes or too complicated of a shape,
it's just going to be really
hard to distinguish at that small
size that a user might see it.
It will get all muddied up.
And it's just not going
to be that memorable.
So some of these app icons
you're probably familiar with.
And I think you can see that
they're really great app icons,
but the thing that jumps
out at you is the shape.
That's kind of what really
grabs a user's attention.
And there are subtle details in them.
There's really nice textures,
kind of the fold of the paper,
all these great details.
But that's kind of
supporting that basic shape.
And so what you really want to do is
make sure that that shape is there,
and then you're building in around that.
The same thing with colors.
You need to make sure that
you're carefully selecting
the colors in your app icon.
It's best to stick with
a limited color palette.
Maybe just two or three colors that
will really drive home your app icon.
Use the colors from your brand,
maybe some colors from
the interface elements,
or if you're trying to
represent a physical object,
try to do that in a simple way.
Now you can see here there's
a bunch of app icons,
great use of color,
but it's really just a
couple of them that pop out,
even though with
Instagram there's that rainbow,
but it's really just the dark
shades of brown and then that dark
lens that really create the shape
and the colors for this app icon.
So it's really important
that you do that.
If you just have too many colors, again,
it's going to get too muddied
up at all those different sizes
that a user might see them.
You also want to make sure that you
avoid using a photo for your app icon.
Photos are too visually distracting.
It's hard to have a simplified
set of colors and it's hard to
have a very well-defined shape.
Let's say you were
building an astronomy app.
It would be really tempting to
use this great photo here of the
Milky Way and take this photo,
turn it into an app icon.
I think it looks okay at this large size.
But the user that downloads this is
someone that's really into astronomy.
They've got a bunch of different
apps that are like this.
This is not going to be that memorable.
And at the smaller sizes,
it's really just going to turn
into this bluish-purple object
that isn't that symbolic.
So instead, really try to focus on some
details that you can enhance,
simplify the colors.
And that's exactly what the designers
of the Star Walk app icon did.
So they really just took that hue,
the purple-bluish hue, simplified it.
They simplified it down and then
they focused on the constellation.
And this is a great app and they
really wanted to make sure the app
icon represented and created this
really symbolic branding element.
This is an app that actually won
the Apple Design Award in 2010.
And so really try to think about what
is that object that you can really focus
in and highlight and what are the colors
around it that you can kind of just
really simplify and really focus on.
Okay, the next tip is avoid
using a lot of text.
Text just typically is a
little bit more complex.
It's too hard to read at
all the different sizes.
But on top of that,
the app store is available in so many
different countries around the world now.
And if you've got a lot
of text in your app icon,
you're just kind of telling
those other countries that,
you know, this may not be the type
of experience for me.
This is, you know, maybe for that region.
And you don't want to cut off access to
all these different customers and all
these potential markets to make -- that
your app icon could be available in.
And so I just want to kind of illustrate
the first point of just how hard
it is to read text in an app icon.
So I want to bring up a graphic here.
Here we're looking at Fuzz
Hair and Makeup Studio.
This is, you know,
a graphic that's probably
designed for a beauty salon,
maybe their websites or maybe their,
you know, actual signage in the store.
And I think the graphic, you know,
looks okay.
It's nice.
There's nothing wrong with it.
And so it would be tempting
to just take this graphic,
their logo, their identity,
and just turn it into an app icon.
That would be something that a lot
of people have done on the app store.
You know,
it's the kind of easy thing to do,
something that's memorable from people
that are going to the app store.
And again,
it might look okay at this large size,
at 5'12" or, you know,
even bigger than that.
But it's not going to work well at
all the different sizes that a user
is going to view it on their device.
And you can kind of start to see what
happens when it gets really small.
You just can't read any of the text.
It kind of turns into
this blobby type of shape.
It's just kind of white with colors.
And it's just not really
effective as a good app icon.
On the other hand,
there's some developers that
have done some really great
stuff with their app icons.
Here's an app called Quip.
This is from Glasshouse
Apps in Australia.
And this is a new Twitter client
that was just available on the iPad.
Great app for catching
up on conversations.
And so this is the logo
that they've got at the top.
They designed this really nice logo,
Quip.
It's got that Twitter bird in the queue.
And so it would be tempting for
them to just take that logo again
and then turn it into an app icon,
right?
But it would look okay at this size.
And again, it would start to really fall
apart at those smaller sizes.
And so what they did was they
really focused on some key elements.
How could we really emphasize
the shape so it's really
distinguishable at all the sizes?
And we still want to bring in the
colors from the branding elements
because this is actually some of the
colors that they use in their app.
And so what they did was they
focused in on just the bird's head.
And it really created this nice shape.
Used those colors, like I mentioned,
from the UI.
But it also has that kind of
connotation of what the app does
because it's got the Twitter bird.
And I think it turned out really nicely.
works well with all the different
sizes and that's one of the most
important things for an app icon.
And this is a technique, you know,
focusing on a single element
rather than just taking your logo,
that a lot of companies have
done in their app icons.
So you can see some of these brands,
many of you are probably
familiar with these brands.
They didn't just take these recognizable
logos and put it into an app icon.
They really highlighted some, you know,
single area of their
typeface or their kind of,
you know, trademark imagery.
To really highlight their app icon.
And so they still have that color
palette that's going to kind of call
them out and have that branding element.
But it's a much simpler shape, you know,
either a single letter or, you know,
a simple shape that will work
well at all these different sizes.
And that's so important.
What about the type of app
icons where you're trying to
represent a physical object?
Well,
if you're doing that type of app icon,
it's critical that you make
sure that you're accurately
portraying the actual materials
that make up that physical object.
You need to be really realistic here.
So pay attention to the subtle
details and textures of fabric or
wood or paper or metal or glass,
whatever you're trying to represent.
Make sure that it looks really authentic.
And so you need to be careful
when you're building these types
of app icons that you're not
just applying the standard gloss.
You need to be careful when
you're building these types of
app icons that you're not just
applying the standard gloss.
And so when you apply this gloss
to these built-in app icons
that we have on the device,
you can kind of see that actual
object kind of isn't as strong
of a visual element anymore.
It's just a little bit distracting.
So make sure that if you
are building your app icon,
you're really paying attention
to make sure that the gloss is
adding value to the actual image.
And turning off the gloss is as simple as
just checking that pre-rendered checkbox
in the project summary tab of Xcode.
And then when you submit that gloss,
you can see that it's actually
adding value to the actual image.
submit the icon,
we know not to apply that gloss,
and everything will look great.
There are some app icons where you want
to have gloss where you still want to
keep that checkbox selected in Xcode.
These are the app icons where you're
trying to represent a physical
object or you're trying to do
something where you selectively want
to apply gloss to the actual image.
And so you actually bake in that
gloss when you're actually creating
the app icon in Photoshop or whatever
image editing tool you're using.
So as you can see, for example,
the YouTube icon,
there's gloss on just the
glass of the television,
but on the wood it kind of
falls off because it just
wouldn't make sense there.
And that's the same thing that
we've done with all these other app
icons that we've created as well.
So really make sure that you're
being true to the materials and
really make sure you're not getting
distracted by some of the things
like reflections and shadows that
make up a really great app icon.
So the last tip I have on app
icons is just to have fun.
Be creative.
So developers, you guys have come up with
some amazing app icons.
And, you know,
I just want to highlight some of them.
I'm going to show you a few of them.
One of my favorites here.
This is Route C Pro.
This is a great app icon.
This is for getting around San Francisco.
This is shaped like a -- or
designed like an actual bus ticket
if you're used to riding in Muni.
Really effective colors.
You know, alludes to what it's doing.
Really love this app icon.
Here's Hipstamatics.
This is a famous app icon.
They're mimicking the actual toy
camera that they've modeled the
effects after in their photo app.
Here's Evernote food.
This is a great app that
made a plate of sushi.
Really creative use of this
rounded rectangle space.
They really kind of
thought out of the box,
if you will.
And to go with the plate of sushi,
I thought I'd show you a
mug of beer from Brewski Me.
And this is a gorgeous icon.
Again, really great attention to detail.
You can see all this condensation
on the actual mug and the foam.
And with all these app icons,
really great stuff.
And the reason that they work
well is not only that they're
beautiful at this large size,
they actually do follow all of these tips
that I went through earlier where they're
really highlighting just a few colors,
a few simple shapes.
And that's really important when
you're designing your app icon.
[Transcript missing]
So they wanted to kind of test it around
and then they did something more bold.
They really wanted to stand out.
So they put it on this
bright orange background.
And they realized the ship
was just kind of too small.
So they increased the size of the ship,
did a bunch of different
size explorations there.
And to make the ship as
big as they wanted to be,
they had to get rid
of that outside frame,
which was kind of better.
It just simplified things even more.
And so they were starting to
feel pretty good about it.
They added some bubbles and you can see
those rays coming out of the submarine
ship in that bottom right area.
you.
The next part of their exploration
was experimenting with the background.
They simplified things even more and
tested it on several different colors.
These are the colors that you see
when you are playing the game.
Going through different levels,
you see red water, green water, whatnot.
What they saw was that to really
highlight the submarine ship,
the blue water really
kind of set it apart.
It has the opposing
blue and orange colors.
And it really worked well.
And that's where they finally landed.
And I think it turned out really nicely.
If you look at this icon up close,
all these great details, those bubbles,
it really looks like you're looking
in this kind of underwater graphic.
Just the glow around the light,
really great attention to detail,
really great looking app icon.
But like I said, it needs to work at all
the different sizes.
And that's how you know you've
got a truly effective app icon.
And that's really what makes
this app icon pass that test.
Okay.
So there's a lot there to
think about for app icons.
And that's probably my longest pitfall.
So I'm going to go through some of
the other ones a little bit quicker.
But I really wanted to just kind of
take a moment and go through some
of these details because it's so
important and can play such a big
role in the success of your app.
So the first pitfall I want to
talk about is forced registration.
And what I mean by forced registration
are app icons that force you to register.
You've all seen apps that kind of
do this right when you launch them.
They just -- you know,
there's two buttons, sign up, sign in.
This is not exciting.
Users hate this.
What they're going to do most of
the time is press that third button,
the home button on the device.
They're going to quit your app.
They're going to, you know, delete it.
And they're never going
to come back to it.
So if you're a user and you
actually need registration,
it's kind of required,
maybe a banking app or even in our
WWDC attendee app where we kind
of wanted to really limit it to
just a limited number of people,
well, you know, then it kind of makes
sense to have a login wall.
But most apps don't
have those requirements.
And when you make a user register,
you're just kind of saying, you know,
they're really motivated.
Maybe they will.
But who knows?
So it's much better to just
kind of remove this barrier.
So this forced registration
when they first started,
this was Fondue.
This is an app that lets you
discover new restaurants and
different things that are nearby you.
And then you can kind of take photos
and create a journal and rate all those
restaurants for your personal memory
or just if you want to share those with
your friends or the Fondue network.
As most of you probably know,
this is a really competitive space.
There's a few apps that do
something similar to this.
And they spent a lot of
time polishing the UI,
making sure they had innovative features,
making sure their performance was great,
their database of restaurants was great,
so that they were really able
to stand out and differentiate
themselves from all the other
apps that did something like this.
But what they noticed was no one
was actually seeing any of that
stuff because they would just
get to that forced registration
and they would just quit the app.
So recently they had a big
update and they really focused
on the onboarding experience.
And what they did was they just really
wanted to make sure that it just excited
people when they launched the app.
So they've got this overview
of all the features that a
user can kind of swipe between.
It's become pretty popular
on a lot of apps now.
There's four cards that you
can kind of see what's inside.
And actually,
I recommend you download this
app because it's pretty cool what
they've done with these cards.
Each of these screens
is actually animated.
And it really just goes that extra
distance in wanting to entice
the user to actually sign up.
But I think the thing that I really
liked about this update was what they
did on that final card where they said,
"Okay, now you know about the features.
Here's your chance to sign in with
Facebook or you can register with
your email if you don't want to use
Facebook." But there's also this really
important button that they added,
which is get a taste.
And what get a taste did is
just let any user get fully into
the app and see how it works.
So that's how things work.
They could actually use the
GPS to see restaurants nearby,
read reviews,
even see if some of their other
friends or who might have made reviews,
if any of their friends
are actually using this.
And then when you actually go to post
a review or you go to your profile tab,
that's the area that then they
prompt you again to sign up.
And after they made this change,
the developer called me up and they said,
"Well, engagement has gone up by 42%
since we made this change.
That is huge in this competitive area."
And so I think it goes without saying.
And so I think it goes without saying
that this was a really important change.
And they've also gotten way more
positive reviews since they've,
you know, really wanted to focus on
this first launch experience.
So really avoid forced registration and
think about how to get your users into
your app as quick as possible so they can
see all the work that you put into it.
Okay.
The next pitfall, tiny controls.
So this is a topic that may sound
familiar to any of you who have
heard some of my previous UI talks
at WWDC or at the tech talks or any
of the other things that I've done.
But this is a topic that
I think is really important.
And I think it's really important.
And I think it's really important
for any of the developer
videos we have on UI design.
But this is a topic that I need
to repeat because still so many
developers are designing controls
that are just so hard to tap on.
For example,
I want to bring up what we could
have done with the WWDC app.
This is a modified version.
And as you know,
we've got so many sessions
and labs going on.
It would be a strong argument to say,
well, let's try to show as much content
as we can to the user so they
don't have to scroll as much.
There's just so much data.
And so to do that,
maybe we'll shrink everything down.
We'll take labels off.
We'll make the buttons a little
bit smaller than the defaults.
We'll make the table view
cells that much shorter.
And it will be way faster for the users,
right?
Well, the truth is this is an experience
that's going to be really slow because
the user is always going to be tapping
on the wrong item or they're just going
to have to slow down to make sure that
they tap on exactly the right item.
And so when you compare this
to the UI that we actually
shipped in the developer app,
you can kind of see that there's
not as many sessions and labs,
but it's actually going to be a way
faster experience because they'll be
able to tap on just the right item.
It's critical that you design
your UI for a fingertip.
Still,
there's too many apps that are designing
for that pixel-precise mouse cursor.
So really think about
designing for the fingertip.
And in the iOS human
interface guidelines,
we recommend controls to be
a minimum of 44 by 44 points.
And the built-in calculator
app is a great reference
to follow for this sizing.
So the buttons are actually
all wider than 44 points.
There's nice,
adequate spacing between them.
And they're all 44 points tall.
And it's not just the built-in calculator
app that we follow this 44-point rule.
It's all throughout iOS.
So if you look at the nav bar,
that's 44 points tall.
If you look at the toolbar,
Now, the buttons and the glyphs in those
bars are actually smaller than 44 points
because they need to fit in that space.
But the area that's actually going
to recognize the touch input,
that's 44 points,
and that's really important.
The rows and table views
and group table views,
they're 44 points.
The buttons in popovers on
the iPad are 44 points tall.
Now, this is a bigger device,
but you're still using your finger,
and so you still need to
follow all of these rules.
The controls in FaceTime are 44 points.
So I'm going to stop here.
I'm not going to go through the rest
of iOS and kind of show you everything.
But I really wanted to kind
of drive home this point that,
you know, go through your app and make
sure you're really paying
attention to all these details.
Make sure that you're
designing for a fingertip.
If you're designing an app that
is used by different types of
people or in different scenarios,
you might even need to
increase the size from there.
Here we're looking at a great app.
This is Strava Cycling.
Strava has this awesome service
for people that ride bicycles where
they can find different routes that
people are going on and they can
track their GPS against time and even
compare themselves to other people
that have done those same routes.
And so when a user uses this app,
they could be wearing bicycle gloves,
they could be kind of tired because
they just got on or got off their bike,
rather.
And so when they design that start
button that kind of logs the bike
ride that you're about to go on,
they want way bigger than 44 points.
And so that button is 110 points.
And so think about how your users
are going to be using your app,
what the scenarios are.
Are they young?
Are they old?
What are the different demographics
that you need to pay attention to?
And make sure your controls
are designed for them.
Okay, so that was Tiny Controls.
The next pitfall is hard to read text.
And this is similar to Tiny Controls.
This is another thing I see so often.
And that is just text
that's really hard to read.
Many reasons.
This is another version of what we
could have done with the DubDub app.
Good thing we didn't do this.
But it's got a whole bunch of colors
and typefaces to kind of accentuate
different types of information.
It's just very visually noisy.
We've got this gradient that's behind
each cell of the table view because we
wanted to maybe really call attention
to this app and differentiate it.
We wanted to differentiate from
other just standard table views.
But all of these things just
add up to this visually complex
kind of mess that you see here.
Now, I have seen, to be fair,
a few apps that do a little bit better of
a job with that gradient treatment where
maybe it fits into that background cell.
But you need to be really careful there.
Usually a gradient behind the cell of
the table view creates this weird effect
when you start scrolling because you
really have this kind of moire effect,
almost like when you're
looking at Venetian lines.
And you get distracted
by the actual background,
the chrome.
Instead of the actual text that's
written in each one of those cells.
So you really want to simplify things.
You also want to make sure
that you're avoiding mixing a
lot of typefaces in your app.
Because, you know,
the screens aren't that big
on the iPhone and the iPad.
And it's a really small area of space.
Instead,
use subtle shading and font sizes
to distinguish the different
types of information that you want
to kind of present to the user.
So here we're looking at
the Mail app on iOS 6.
And you can kind of see that, you know,
we're using the standard UI kit
framework for how this gets laid out.
And it really is these subtle
attention to detail around the font
sizes and the shading that really
helps the user figure out what the
different pieces of information are.
So the most important piece
of information is the sender
that gets this nice Helvetica
Noia 17-point bold treatment.
It really stands out.
The next piece of information that a
user might care about is the subject.
So that still stays a Helvetica Noia.
But now it gets bumped down a
few points on the font size.
Still black.
No longer bold.
And underneath that is
the message preview.
This is kind of a tertiary
piece of information.
Sometimes you read it.
Sometimes you don't really need to to get
to the email message you're looking for.
Still Helvetica Noia.
But it's this light gray 13-point.
And you can see that, you know,
information is laid out nicely.
You still know the different types
of information even with just the
standard Helvetica Noia typeface.
Now, 13-point is actually the minimum
size I ever recommend you use
if you're using the system font.
Because anything smaller than 13-point
is just going to be too hard to read.
Users are going to need to
squint or have to bring their
device closer to their face.
And you don't want to make them do that.
And really,
13-point should only be used for
tertiary pieces of information.
You know, really, you know, labels or,
you know, something like this.
They're just getting a small preview.
If you need to actually read
-- if the user needs to read
a lot of text in your app,
you need to go bigger from there.
So actually, in mail, when we actually go
display an actual message,
it's actually 15 points.
So it's much more legible
for line wrapping.
And so if you've got an app where the
user is going to be spending a lot of
time maybe reading a book chapter or
a news article or something like that,
you know,
make sure that it's really legible.
You also want to make sure
that you're aligning text.
And again,
you'll get a lot of these things for
free if you're using the UI kit layouts.
And the alignment is really
important because it just makes
using the app a lot faster,
which is really important when
you've got these utility apps,
your user's trying to get
a task done on the go.
So when there's that alignment,
it creates this nice grid that creates
that nice line that a user can focus
their eye on and just really quickly
skim all of the different data.
You also want to do this when you've
got labels in addition to values.
You need to make sure that
you're right aligning the labels
and left aligning the values.
And what that's going to do, again,
is create that single line for the
user to kind of look up and down as
they're scrolling or just looking at
a single screen and find that piece of
information that they're looking for.
I've seen a lot of developers
who aren't using UIKit layouts,
and so what they're doing is just kind of
defaulting and left aligning everything.
And it creates this weird zigzag
pattern across the screen.
You know, there's no grid.
There's nothing that's clean there.
And every user basically has to read
every single line on the screen to find
what they're actually searching for.
And it's just really slow.
Okay, so that was hard to read text.
The next pitfall is ambiguous alerts.
Oh,
before I actually get to this pitfall,
I just want to take a minute and really
talk about the importance of testing your
UI on the iPhone and the iPad to actually
avoid some of those previous pitfalls.
So a lot of times the reason why
the controls are so small and hard
to tap or the text is hard to read
is because in the design process,
in the design phase of
the development process,
the person wasn't adequately testing
the actual screen density of their UI.
So, you know,
the iOS simulator is a great tool
when you're actually developing,
but now there's a lot of actually
wonderful tools that you can use when
you're actually in the design phase,
before you even start
the development phase.
And so there's a bunch of
apps that basically launch --
you can use them in your Mac,
and you just -- whatever
you're looking at,
you can just, you know,
beam them over to the iPhone or to the
iPad using the same wireless network,
and that UI will show up over there.
And these types of tools are really
critical when you're building an app
for the different screen densities
that actually happen on iOS.
And so some of these tools are great.
Live View has been around for a while,
and this just is a really great tool for
just kind of streaming out over Wi-Fi,
everything that's going on.
You can even kind of see animations
that are happening on your Mac onto
your actual iPhone or your iPad app.
There's also Scala View now from Bajango.
This is a great tool.
It integrates directly with the
latest versions of Photoshop.
Everything you're doing in
Photoshop actually just shows up on
your iPad or your iPhone right away.
Great tool.
There's also Xscope
Mirror from the Icon Factory.
Now, the Icon Factory,
as most of you know, they put out great
utilities for development.
And this tool has all these awesome tools
for just pixel-precise measurements.
So you can really kind of take a look,
preview everything that's going on,
and measure exactly what
might be going wrong.
And there's a new one
that's relatively -- yeah,
it's relatively new on the App Store,
just a few months, I think.
And it's called Xscope Mirror.
It's called Screenshots Journal.
This is an iOS-only app.
It doesn't have a Mac companion,
so it's not really for previewing
exactly what you're working on the Mac.
But this is a tool that basically
extracts all the screenshots that
you've saved to your camera roll
on your iPhone or iPad and just
presents them in this nice UI.
And then it lets you zoom in on them.
And when you're zooming in,
it puts this great pixel grid on top of
the magnified UI so you can see exactly
what's going on on the actual device.
So if there's an issue with some aliasing
or maybe a non-retina graphic managed
to get into the code or into the design,
you can kind of call that out.
Any little kerning issues,
really great utilities.
And there's actually so many more
utilities that aren't mentioned up here.
There's Silk Screen.
There's Prototyper.
There's a lot that come out,
it seems like, almost every month.
So figure out a tool that
works well for your workflow.
But please,
the most important thing is that you're
actually testing your UI on the actual
device early on in the design process.
Okay.
So let's get back to the pitfalls.
Now we'll talk about the next pitfall,
which is ambiguous alerts.
So, many of you have maybe
seen an alert like this,
right?
It's got this cryptic error message,
and it's not really helpful at all.
It's just annoying.
What am I supposed to do?
Okay.
Or maybe something even worse,
something destructive and scary.
Are you sure you want to
cancel this transaction?
Okay, or cancel?
What button do I press?
What's going to happen?
Again,
you're probably going to quit this app,
and I don't know what you're going to do,
right?
So, to help you really avoid some
of these ambiguous alerts,
I want to go through some tips
on how to really effectively
communicate information in your app.
So,
the first tip is actually just to avoid
unnecessary alerts whenever possible.
So, really try to embed important
information directly into the UI of
your app where it makes sense.
So, here we're looking at the mail app,
and what we do in the mail app is
we actually show the last time that
we were able to hit the mail server.
And so, that actually gives the user
an idea of what's going on.
And so, that's really important.
And this way,
we don't need to throw up an annoying
alert every time the cellular network
loses connection or anything like that.
It's just, okay,
that's the last time I got my mail.
And, you know,
really try to think about in your app,
what's the important information
that you were maybe thinking
of just putting into an alert,
and think about how to embed
that directly into the UI.
You want to make sure that
you're using appropriate labels.
So label buttons by
their resulting actions.
Resist the temptation to just use
OK and Cancel or Yes and No on
all of your buttons in the alerts.
Those are just not that helpful.
Usually when you see OK and Cancel,
you have to kind of map
what OK is going to do.
And so you have to read the text,
and you have to be very
clear with the question.
Well, with software, of course,
you can put whatever label you
want on any different button and
really take advantage of that.
Here we're looking at the alerts
that you get from the reminders.
And you can see that the buttons
are labeled Close and View.
Remember,
alerts are just kind of jarring to users.
They kind of come out of nowhere.
It's this surprising thing.
And they may be doing another task.
They may be showing their
phone to somebody else,
some photos, or browsing the web.
They might just really quickly
want to dismiss that alert.
And so having these buttons clearly
labeled Close and View just leaves
any of that ambiguity out of there.
Make sure that you're putting the
affirmative button on the right.
So on iOS and OSX,
we've always had cancel on the left and
the affirmative button on the right.
And this is really important.
There's a lot of apps out there
that are kind of following
the Microsoft convention.
They're putting okay on the left and
they're putting cancel on the right.
And what that does is it kind of
messes with people's muscle memory.
So maybe one of these alerts kind
of comes up and a user just really
quickly wants to dismiss it and
they'll tap that button on the right
and now it's no longer the okay
button or the affirmative button.
It's now the cancel button and they may
have done something pretty destructive.
So really make sure you're following
iOS conventions so that users can
take advantage of what they've
learned throughout the platform.
[Transcript missing]
Okay, so that was ambiguous alerts.
The next pitfall is out
of place terminology.
And this is similar.
Again, language is something that's
so critical in an app.
So you want to make sure that
you're really using language
that makes sense for people.
Remember that most users actually
don't care about the technology
that you've built into your app.
They care about getting
something done or having fun.
They care about using it.
They don't care that you've adopted
this technology or all the cool stuff
that you and I get excited about.
They just want to get their stuff done.
So here we're looking at what we
could have done with the Settings app.
Here we're looking at Settings in iOS 6.
And you can kind of see that if we
maybe just didn't spend any time
on coming up with good language,
we could have gone with these terms.
Cellular baseband.
What does that mean?
Turn that on and off.
Or other things.
System alerts or other alerts.
What's the difference?
Right?
It would be kind of just confusing.
Bluetooth LA.
Who cares?
That's the technology.
Doesn't really matter.
When you compare that to the
actual terms that we've used,
it's actually all stuff
that's very user-centric.
You know, do not disturb, airplane mode,
notifications,
things that actually a normal user
that has no technical ability can
kind of make assumptions about.
Oh, I think I probably know
what's in that settings area.
So really spend a lot of time
on the language in your app.
And we do this, again,
throughout the platform.
In Maps, we talk about dropping a pin.
This isn't add GPS indicator
to mapping location.
You know, it's just drop a pin.
we describe what's going on in the actual
interface and make sense to people.
An important thing is throughout iOS,
we abstract the underlying file system.
This is a new world with iOS.
So we don't talk about files.
We talk about listening to music or
watching videos or viewing photos.
And when we do need to kind of reference
more of the typical file type of formats
in our apps such as numbers from iWork,
we talk about them exactly as they are.
Again,
we just talk about these as spreadsheets.
You won't see a command in numbers
such as new untitled dot numbers
or XLS or anything like that.
It's just exactly describing the
content that the user is working on,
the actual document.
Okay, so that's out of place terminology.
The next pitfall, excessive branding.
So this is something that I see
a lot from a lot of developers
that have just come from the web,
and that is you see logos everywhere.
So let's say we're looking
at the DubDub app again,
and here you can kind of see
that we're excited about WWDC.
We all know that you are as well.
So let's put that logo on
every single screen in our app.
Get everyone excited.
They'll really know that
they're in this app.
Well, that's really annoying.
You don't want to do that.
Remember that the reason why logos
are at the top of every web page
is because users kind of need a
way to get back to the home page,
and they may have done a search
and kind of landed at some
page deep into your website.
And so by having that logo,
it just kind of identifies
to the user where they are,
where they've kind of landed.
But on iOS, that's not the case at all.
They've launched your app using the
actual app icon or by using Siri.
And so they know what app you're in.
Use the tips that I just went over
for the app icon section to really
make a great branding statement there.
Within your app,
the best branding that you can
have is just having a streamlined
user experience where users are
able to accomplish their tasks.
So it's much better to actually label
the screens -- label the navigation
bar by the screens that they're at.
And this is really helpful if
an app has deep hierarchy and
there's lots of levels that a user
is going to be going up and down,
or if there's a lot of screens
in an app that kind of look
very familiar to the user.
And so that's really important.
And so that label is really going
to let them -- help them identify
exactly where they are in the UI.
Okay, so that was excessive branding.
The next pitfall is
uninformative back buttons.
And like excessive branding,
this is a pitfall that is actually,
you know, very common from developers
coming from the Web.
And so uninformative back
buttons are -- you know,
you can recognize them by that
back button that's actually
just labeled "back." Now that's
not a helpful label at all.
Everybody knows that that button in
the upper left corner that's shaped,
you know, pointed to the left,
that's going to take them back
one level in the hierarchy.
And so if you just use
the word "back," you know,
you're not adding any
value to that label.
So you really want to label
these by the screen that they're
going back to appropriately.
Even if the UI -- the label of the
screen won't fit into that back button,
you need to truncate,
that's still way more helpful than
just the word "back." So really
label these appropriately.
Again, this is kind of a metaphor
that's come from the Web.
In a Web browser,
the back button always means show
me the last page I was looking at.
And so you can tap that and you always
know you're going to get back there.
On iOS, it's actually slightly different
because it's not going to be the
last page you're going to see on
the screen that I was looking at.
It is taking me back up
one level in the hierarchy,
but, you know,
maybe a modal sheet or something
else could have come up in between,
you know, me landing on this screen.
And so that back isn't actually
going to take me just back.
So it's much more helpful to actually
label this by where it actually goes.
Okay, so the next pitfall:
confusing animations.
So I've talked a lot about animations
in some of my previous talks at
WWC and some of the videos that
you can get on the developer website.
And, you know, it's important.
Animations is one of the
things that really sets iOS
apart from other platforms.
We use animations all over the place
to make the experience more engaging,
more intuitive, just, you know,
a lot more fun.
But you need to be careful with
animations that you're not distracting
from the core user experience,
from the core task that
a user is actually doing.
And so you really need to be
careful about how you implement
animations into your app.
You're all familiar with the weather app.
This is what it looks like and
what happens when you actually
tap on that info button.
It kind of flips the weather card around.
And so right away that animation
kind of has introduced this concept
to the user that this is a card and
on the other side are the settings.
Now, if I was to press that done button,
I'd expect that card to flip back over,
have a very symmetrical animation,
and it would make sense.
But there's a lot of apps
that actually don't do that.
They do something weird, you know,
so they don't finish it off.
And so maybe it flips
over and then slides away.
And again,
it's one of these things just like
with alerts and language that a
user is not going to necessarily
be able to point out and say,
okay,
this app was really confusing because
they didn't have symmetrical animations.
No, they're just going to say,
I don't know, it felt weird.
It was hard to use.
I didn't know what was going on.
It was confusing.
So really make sure you've
got symmetrical animations.
Make sure you're also following, again,
standard conventions.
I've seen a lot of apps on the
App Store that aren't using UIKit.
They're kind of doing their own formats.
They're using the same
formats for whatever reason.
And they're trying to mimic a
lot of our built-in animations.
But they're not going the full
distance and either implementing
them right or they're trying to get
creative to differentiate themselves.
They've ended up creating
something that does differentiate
themselves but not in a good way.
So when you tap on the cell, instead of,
you know, pushing everything over,
maybe it slides on top.
And again,
these animations are introducing
these physical concepts to the user.
So now the user thinks that possibly
all these levels of the hierarchy
are stacked on top of each other.
So you can't just say,
can I just press the back button
or can I just swipe anywhere on
the screen to get back because
everything's stacked on top?
You just don't want to leave any of
these questions into the user's mind.
You know, really stick with
animations that make sense.
And wherever possible, just when you're
creating your animations,
just really think about the
physics of real physical objects.
That's what we do when we're
building our animations in iOS.
Okay, so the next pitfall and the last
one is inappropriate styling.
And so what I mean by inappropriate
styling are just apps that have a visual
design that's just not appropriate for
the type of app or the type of content
that the user is kind of consuming.
So I want to show you a
screenshot of what we could
have done with the Photos app.
And instead of that black background
that you're used to seeing,
I've put it on this really
nice-looking wood texture.
And I think when you look at it,
it actually looks okay.
It works well.
Maybe the photo,
the piles of photos looks like
it's on this antique desk.
But as you kind of look at it more
and more now that it's been up on
the screen for a few more seconds,
you can kind of see that what's happening
is the background is actually way
stronger visually than the actual photos.
You're taking all the kind of, you know,
the visual -- you're taking the attention
to the actual background instead of
the content that the user cares about.
And when you compare this
to the black background,
which is much simpler,
you can see that the user
just really pops the photos.
It makes the photos center stage.
And it lets the user easily identify
what's in each of those different piles.
So it's not only, you know,
better looking,
but it's also more effective.
So a really great tip for thinking
about the visual style of your
app is to really think about
the type of app you're building.
And I kind of show this graph a bunch,
which is put entertainment on one
side and utility on the other.
And think about where your
app falls on this axis.
Because if you figure out
where your app belongs,
you'll be able to define some key
characteristics that you can apply.
It's the visual styling of your app.
So entertainment apps,
they need to be highly visual, fun,
and immersive.
But on the other side of the spectrum,
on utility apps, they need to be useful,
efficient, and reliable.
And so to show you an example
of each of these apps,
I just kind of want to actually
go to the app store and show you.
Here's Bjork's Biophilia.
This is an amazing app in
the entertainment side.
Bjork built this app as part
of her latest album as a
universal iPhone and iPad app.
And it's an amazing
audio/visual experience.
You're not hearing the sound, of course,
right now.
But when you kind of go in,
you're just kind of
floating in this 3D galaxy,
and you get all these stars,
and it's very kind of just experimental.
And this is actually
the navigation system.
So you're floating around
these constellations.
When you tap on any one of
those brightly colored stars,
you kind of dive in right into one
of the songs or video game type
of experiences that she's created.
And in each of these
different interactions,
there's all these things
that you can discover,
just tapping or swiping.
Or using the accelerometer,
depending on the interaction.
So a big part of this app is just
discovery and figuring out and being
delighted when you discover this cool
new interaction that they've built in.
And that works really well
because this is really
definitely an entertainment app.
Now imagine this type of UI on the
other side of the spectrum with
a hardcore utility app like mail.
How frustrating it would be if your
messages were floating in space and
you kind of had to discover things.
You know, where's the reply button?
If I swipe here or turn --
That would just be ridiculous.
With mail, users don't really care about
spending a lot of time and kind
of having a lot of fun with mail.
Maybe they do,
but most of the time they just want to
read their messages and kind of move on.
Utility tasks are something that
users want to get in and out
of pretty quickly so they can
get to their entertainment apps.
So you want to really design
a streamlined workflow that
really is reliable for them.
They know where the buttons are.
They're using the standard UI kit
Chrome and everything that a user
has kind of learned from iOS.
There are some apps that are somewhere
in between entertainment and utility.
So GarageBand is a great example.
So in these types of apps
where you've got a hybrid app,
apply the characteristics to the parts
of the screen where it makes sense.
So the instrumentation
screen is really visual.
It's fun.
It's immersive.
And you can spend a lot of time
just playing the drums or the
guitars or the different keyboards.
You can really lose
yourself in that task.
But on the other side,
when you go to actually mix a song,
it's a completely different type of UI.
The graphics are still
really nice looking.
But this is a screen that's
been designed around efficiency.
So you can mix your song
as fast as possible.
And if you're familiar
with GarageBand on the Mac,
it's a very reliable UI.
It's something that you're
familiar with from that experience.
We've done the same thing
with iMovie as well.
This is another app that's kind
of in between on that spectrum.
So when you launch the app,
it's this fun experience.
You get the movie posters from all
the different things you've created.
There's a nice animation
for the neon sign.
And you get the sound of
everything flickering on.
You know, really fun,
immersive experience.
But, again,
when you go to actually edit a movie,
the UI is completely different.
It's all designed around efficiency.
We could have continued this metaphor
of this movie theater and just taken
it into the actual editing area.
Maybe we would have, you know,
celluloid splices and a linear
editing machine that you'd be
kind of pressing buttons on.
But that really would have gotten in
the way of actually editing a movie.
The fun part of iMovie is actually
sharing movies with your friends through
e-mail or uploading them to YouTube.
It's not actually editing the movie.
So you don't want to necessarily
spend a lot of time in that area.
Think about these different
types of characteristics,
apply these to the screens where it makes
sense or to the whole app if your app is
on one side of the spectrum or the other.
The other thing that you want to focus on
when you're designing the style and the
visual design of your app is the content.
You want to make sure that you're
really using realism where it's
appropriate and that you're always
highlighting the content in your app.
Here we're looking at
the built-in compass app.
This is an app that doesn't
actually have a lot of content.
It's actually great that we use realism.
We have this wood.
It's only a single number,
the direction and the latitude and
longitude that you're looking at.
By actually designing in this realism,
that great brass and the wood,
it actually gives the user a sense
of how to use this app because
they just put it in their hand
and they move their phone around.
It works.
It's a lot more memorable
than just a number that would
just show up on the screen.
Here's an app called Etude
from Steinway and Son.
This is an app that's a metronome,
and so you can use it when
you're practicing the piano.
And as you can see,
there's just a single number,
and so they really used realism to
kind of create this expensive-looking
tool that would fit right at home
on a Steinway and Son's piano.
Here's Thermo from Robocat.
This is an app that's really fun.
You launch it, the mercury kind of
animates up the thermometer,
and you can see what the current
temperature is at the location
that you're at based on your GPS.
Again, just a single number,
not a lot of data,
and so they really focused on the visual,
the background, the chrome.
Essentially, with all of these apps,
they've turned the content into
the chrome itself because there's
not a lot of data coming out there.
Here we're looking at
a screenshot from DM1,
the drum machine.
This is one of the apps that won one
of those design awards on Monday.
And this is an app that does actually
have more data than some of the
other ones that I just showed you,
but this data is actually static.
It's not moving around all the
time like mail where things
are constantly changing.
And all the content is
also text here as well.
There's not photos and
videos that are static.
It's text.
And so by using the graphics,
they're able to really create
this memorable experience,
and it looks like a real drum machine.
It's a gorgeous app.
If you haven't seen
this on a Retina iPad,
I highly recommend you download it.
It is really beautiful.
And here we're looking
at the Voice Memos app.
This is the built-in microphone
that you are all familiar with.
Again, not a lot of data,
just the audio input,
and so we've turned that
into an analog meter.
But actually,
when you go to actually access a voice
memo that you've created or saved,
the UI is completely different, right?
We don't have this continuation
of this studio metaphor to access
your different voice memos.
We don't make the user put in eight
tracks or press chunky Chrome buttons
because that would get really
frustrating when you've got a
lot of voice memos saved in there and
you're trying to find exactly the one
that you created at a certain time.
And so, again,
just like I talked about applying the
different characteristics to the type
of entertainment or utility apps,
you want to do the same thing with the
type of content that you have and make
sure that you're really paying attention
to the information density of your app.
OK, so I really want to stress the
importance of making sure that you've
got an appropriate style for your app.
Don't just look at any other app that
you think is beautiful and just apply
those characteristics to your app.
Really think about what
makes sense for your users.
Okay, so that was the last pitfall.
And there's so much to cover in UI design
and the human interface guidelines
actually goes into way more detail about
all the topics that I just talked about.
It's a great resource.
This is a photo that a developer sent
me of their human interface guidelines.
And I love this photo because it really
shows how I imagine all HIGs should look.
It's used, it's printed up,
it's bookmarked.
And it's actually very reminiscent of
the HIG that you would see if you're
walking around the offices in Cupertino.
Because all of our developers
and designers are also constantly
referencing this document.
Okay, so before I wrap up,
I just want to leave you
with some final thoughts.
So like I said earlier,
there's a lot of information
that's come up this week.
I hope you've had a chance to
learn all the greatest new tips
and tricks to really get your
apps kind of performing better,
to make all the technology
just feel wonderful.
And we've put a lot of work into
our platform to make it really
easy for you to build apps.
And so you'll hear from a lot of
people this week and a lot of just
people when you're talking about
iOS in general after this week that,
you know,
designing an iPhone or an iPad app,
it's really easy.
It's an easy thing to do.
And that's true.
We think it is the easiest
platform to design an app for.
But the truth is designing a
great app is extremely difficult.
And the reason why designing a
It's not because of some of the
stuff that we've covered this week.
It's not about, you know,
the coding techniques or the different
APIs or the different frameworks.
It's not even about most of the different
UI tips that I've gone through today
or all the great resources that we
have in the human interface guidelines.
The reason designing a great app
is hard is because of all those
different decisions you're going
to need to make throughout the
process and getting agreement by the
different team members that you have.
And so you really want to make sure
that you're spending all of your time.
Focusing your efforts.
You want to determine just the essential
features in your app and really spend all
of your time just polishing those bits.
When you try to do too
many things in your app,
you're just not going to
set yourself up for success.
Now, I can't think of any app on the app
store that is successful because it's
got more features than everybody else.
But I can think of the
most successful apps.
And when I look at them,
it's because they made the hard decisions
about what features not to include,
which users that aren't
as important to them.
They're the apps that really do one or
two things better than everybody else.
And if you're able to do that,
if you're able to have just one
thing or two things that are better
than every other app in that space,
you're going to really set
yourself up for success.
And then you'll be able to
build on that and add some of
those features in app updates.
Okay, so here's my email.
Please get in contact with
me if you've got specific
questions on the UI of your app.
And always constantly reference
the human interface guidelines.
Thank you very much.